W-11572520 Exchange rewrite search experience jh (#218)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/legacy-search-experience.adoc

= Legacy Search Experience
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

The legacy search experience, which was previously called the old search, is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. This search experience does not include enhanced options for searching by rank, organizations, and lifecycle states. 

To access the legacy search, click *Back to legacy search* from the landing page.

Discover assets by searching for specific assets from the landing page of the Exchange catalog. 

== Display Assets in List or Grid View

You have an option to display the catalog of assets in list or grid view. List view arranges assets in a list format and grid view displays the assets in tiles. Both views display the asset name, type, rating, and created by information.

> == Filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Filter Search Results
```

> You can filter search results by asset types for example, API groups, REST APIs, and rulesets by selecting an option from the *All types* drop-down menu. The options that appear depend on which types are available within an organization.

Reviewer: The first sentence feels like a lot. Maybe parenthetical? 

You can filter search results by asset types (for example, API groups, REST APIs, and rulesets) by selecting an option from the *All types* drop-down menu.

Author: fixed

 
 
== Search in Organization

You can search only in the Exchange organization that you are currently viewing. If you are viewing a private Exchange organization, the search lists only that organization’s assets and not MuleSoft public assets.

== Save a Search

> Search criteria that is used often can be saved for quick discovery of specific assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can save search criteria that you use often for quick discovery of specific assets.
```

Reviewer: (passive)

. Enter a search term and click *Save This Search*.
. When prompted, give the search a name and select whether the search is an organization search or personal search.
+
Administrators can save searches visible to anyone in their current business group. Personal searches are visible only to the person who creates them.
. Save the search.
. Confirm that your search appears in the saved searches in the left navigation bar.
+

> Exchange lists search terms specific to your business group. Below those terms are saved searches you created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exchange lists search terms specific to your business group and the saved searches you created:
```

+

> image::ex2-saved-searches-groups.png[Saved Search Groups]

Reviewer: Is it groups or terms?

== Search API Specifications

> The following API specification properties are used in search:

Reviewer: You can use....

Author: fixed

** Name
* Types
** Name
** Properties
* Traits
* Properties
* Security schemas

These property names are based on RAML specifications. Equivalent properties are indexed for OAS specifications. For example, RAML uses base URI but OAS uses host and path.

This example shows an API specification:

[source,text,linenums]
----
#%RAML 1.0
---
title: Leagues API
version: v1
baseUri: https://leagues.com/api/

types:
 Team:
   properties:
     name: string
     city: string

/leagues/{leagueId}:
 displayName: League resource
 description: Contains all the information about a league
 uriParameters:
   leagueId:
     displayName: League ID
     description: The ID of the league to retrieve information from
 /teams:
   get:
     displayName: Teams directory
     description: Get list of all teams in the league
     queryParameters:
       offset:
         displayName: Offset
         description: Offset for the result set
     responses:
       200:
         body:
           application/json:
               type: Team[]
   post:
     displayName: Create team
     description: Creates a new team in the league
     responses:
       201:
         description: New team has been created
----

> This API is found by these searches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These search results include this API:
```

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search term |Matches
|league API |API title
|leagues.com |API baseUri
|`/leagues` |Endpoint path
|League resource |Endpoint display name
|Information about a league |Endpoint description
|POST |Endpoint method
|create team |Endpoint method description
|offset |Query parameter name, Query parameter description
|leagueid |URI parameter name
|team |Type name
|city |Type property name
|leagues leagueId teams |Endpoint path
|`/leagues/LEAGUE_ID/teams` |Endpoint path
|===

Note that the last two searches are the same, because special characters are removed before searching.

== Search for Phrases 

> You can search for case-insensitive text that begins with each word you specify, put a space between words. This is similar to putting the `*` wildcard regular expression after each word. For example, searching for `mq module` finds any asset that has text that starts with `mq` or `module`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To search for case-insensitive text that begins with each word you specify, add a space between words. This is similar to including the `*` wildcard regular expression after each word. For example, searching for `mq module` finds any asset that includes text that starts with `mq` or `module`.
```

> Searching for a multiple word phrase shows assets that have every word in the phrase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searching for a multiple-word phrase shows assets that have every word in the phrase.
```

If you separate search words with any non-alphanumeric character other than a space, Anypoint Exchange converts the character to a space before searching.

=== Search Separators

The search experience uses search separators to find Exchange assets that contain one or more terms.

> If you input search words connected by non-alphanumeric symbols, Exchange replaces the symbols with spaces before searching for the term. The search string only succeeds if both words are present in the result. This is the same as the `word1 AND word2` relationship.

Reviewer: Input feels weird. Enter?

Need a noun after "This"

Relationship seems strange here - maybe:

The result is equivalent to using `word1 AND word2`.

Author: agree and fixed

Example search terms:

[source,text,linenums]
----
sales:connect
Sales-Connect
connect:/sales
-connect -sales
----

This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
asset ID, and tags for an asset. If the search term maps to the values correctly, a match occurs. If not,

> the reason is provided.

Reviewer: the error indicates... ?

Author: agree and fixed

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Asset Name |Asset ID |Tags |Matches?
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |mule-Connector |Yes
|Salesforce Connector |salesforce-connector |REST |Yes
|Validations API |validations-api |salesforce-connecting |Yes
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/connect, salesforce:enabled |Yes
|Cisco Sales API  |cisco-sales-api |Connecting, Productive |Yes
|Cisco Connector |cisco-connector |com.cisco.connector.sales
|Yes, because the tag is split into separate terms.
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |muleconnector, MuleConnector |No. `connect` was not found.
|Salesforce Connec |salesforce-connec |REST |No. `connect` was not found.
|Validations API |validations-api |connector |No. `sales` was not found.
|Cisco Presales API |cisco-presales-api |Connector, api |No. `sales` was not found.
|===

=== Phrase Search Separators

Use phrase search to find a group of terms inside quotation marks. Phrase searches match an asset only if all the exact terms inside quotes appear in consecutive order.

> If you input any of these searches in Exchange, Exchange replaces non-alphanumeric symbols with spaces before searching for assets.

Reviewer: I guess "input" as a verb works, but it grates on me :)

Author: fixed

Example search terms:

[source,text,linenums]
----
Api: "Sales connect"
Api "Sales-connect"
Api "Sales:/connect"
Api-"Sales/connect"
"Sales connect":Api
----

This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
asset ID, and tags for an asset. If the search term maps to the values correctly, a match occurs. If not,

> the reason is provided.

Reviewer: line 160

Is there a way to make it active?

Author: If not, the reason displays when the match does not occur.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Asset Name |Asset ID |Tags |Matches?
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |mule-Connector |No. `sales connect` was not found.
|Salesforce Connector |salesforce-connector |REST |No
|Sales Connect Asset |validations-api |mule-connector |Yes
|Sales Connect Images |validations-images |mule-connector |No. `api` was not found.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/connect, sales:enabled |No. `sales connect` was not found.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/sales, connect:enabled |No. `sales connect` was not found, because each term is in different tags.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |sales:/connect |Yes
|===

== Search by Types, Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields 

> You can enter search text to search for assets. Click *All Types* to set a filter for specific asset types, or combine search text with the filters listed in the type menu.

Reviewer: Should type be init cap and bold?

Author: Yes, thanks for pointing this out. Should be *All types* menu.

> The search experience uses query language to search assets by tags, categories, and custom fields.

Reviewer: a query language?

Author: fixed

=== Search by Tags

> Search by tags using either `tag:"some value"` or `tag:value`.

Reviewer: The sentence feels incomplete.

You can... 
or
To search...

Author: agree

If the value has no spaces, then double quotes are optional.

Tag search is case-insensitive.

Examples:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search |Tags |Matches?
|tag:"some value" |some value |Yes
|tag:"some value" |value |No
|tag:"value" |value |Yes
|tag:value |value |Yes
|tag:VALUE |value |Yes
|tag:VaLuE |value |Yes
|tag:value |val |No
|===

=== Search by Categories

> Search by categories using `category:"some key" = "some value"`.

Reviewer: 219

Author: fixed

The key is case-sensitive.

A search value matches an asset value if either of these is true:

* The search value is entirely lowercase.
* The letter case of the search value and the asset value match.

Examples:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search |Category |Matches?
|category:my-key = my-value |my-key:my-value |Yes
|category:my-key = MY-VALUE |my-key:MY-VALUE |Yes
|category:my-key = my-value |my-key:MY-VALUE |Yes
|category:"my key" = "my value" |my key:my value |Yes
|category:"key" = "value" |my key:my value |No
|category:key = value |my-key:my-value |No
|category:this.* = value |this.is.my.key:value |Yes
|category:*my.key = value |this.is.my.key:value |Yes
|category:this.* = value |this.is.my.key:some-value |No
|category:this.* = some-* |this.is.my.key:some-value |No
|===

You can search for a combination of different categories. You cannot search for multiple values of the same category.

Multiple search terms use an implicit `AND`. `OR` is not supported.

These search terms return all assets marked as both system APIs and Salesforce products:

`category:"API Type" = "System API" category:"Product" = "Salesforce"`

=== Search by Custom Fields

> Search by fields using `field:"some key" = "some value"`.

Reviewer: 219

Author: fixed

= Legacy Search Experience
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

The legacy search experience, which was previously called the old search, is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. This search experience does not include the enhanced options for searching by rank, organizations, and lifecycle states. The enhanced search is the default search experience when logging into Exchange.

To access the legacy search, click the *Back to legacy search* button from the landing page.

== Display Assets in List or Grid View

> You have an option to display the catalog of assets in list or grid view. List view arranges assets in a list format and grid view displays the assets in tiles. Both views display the asset name, type, rating, and created by information.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: you have the option

Author: fixed

== Filter Search Results

You can filter search results by asset types (for example, API groups, REST APIs, and rulesets) by selecting an option from the  *All types* drop-down menu. The options that appear depend on which types are available within an organization.
 
 
== Search in Organization

You can search only in the Exchange organization that you are currently viewing. If you are viewing a private Exchange organization, the search lists only that organization’s assets and not MuleSoft public assets.

== Save a Search

You can save search criteria that you use often for quick discovery of specific assets.

. Enter a search term and click *Save This Search*.

> . When prompted, give the search a name and select whether the search is an organization search or personal search.

Reviewer 2: suggestion: an organizational search ?

Author: yes, fixed

+
Administrators can save searches visible to anyone in their current business group. Personal searches are visible only to the person who creates them.
. Save the search.
. Confirm that your search appears in the saved searches in the left navigation bar.
+
Exchange lists search terms specific to your business group and the saved searches you created:
+
image::ex2-saved-searches-groups.png[Saved Search Groups]

== Search API Specifications

> You can use the following API specification properties are used in search:

Reviewer 2: I think you meant: "You can use the following API specification properties that are used in search:".

Author: will fix

 /teams:
   get:
     displayName: Teams directory
     description: Get list of all teams in the league
     queryParameters:
       offset:
         displayName: Offset
         description: Offset for the result set
     responses:
       200:
         body:
           application/json:
               type: Team[]
   post:
     displayName: Create team
     description: Creates a new team in the league
     responses:
       201:
         description: New team has been created
----

These search results include this API:
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search term |Matches
|league API |API title
|leagues.com |API baseUri
|`/leagues` |Endpoint path
|League resource |Endpoint display name
|Information about a league |Endpoint description
|POST |Endpoint method
|create team |Endpoint method description
|offset |Query parameter name, Query parameter description
|leagueid |URI parameter name
|team |Type name
|city |Type property name
|leagues leagueId teams |Endpoint path
|`/leagues/LEAGUE_ID/teams` |Endpoint path
|===

Note that the last two searches are the same, because special characters are removed before searching.

== Search for Phrases 

> You can search for case-insensitive text that begins with each word you specify, put a space between words. This is similar to putting the `*` wildcard regular expression after each word. For example, searching for `mq module` finds any asset that has text that starts with `mq` or `module`.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: to search for...

Author: added this: You can search for case-insensitive text that begins with each word you specify by adding a space between words.

Searching for a multiple-word phrase shows assets that have every word in the phrase.

If you separate search words with any non-alphanumeric character other than a space, Anypoint Exchange converts the character to a space before searching.

=== Search Separators

The search experience uses search separators to find Exchange assets that contain one or more terms.

If you enter search words connected by non-alphanumeric symbols, Exchange replaces the symbols with spaces before searching for the term. The search string only succeeds if both words are present in the result. The result is equivalent to using `word1 AND word2` relationship.

Example search terms:

[source,text,linenums]
----
sales:connect
Sales-Connect
connect:/sales
-connect -sales
----

This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
asset ID, and tags for an asset. If the search term maps to the values correctly, a match occurs. If not,

> the reason displays when the match does not occur..

Reviewer 2: extra .

Author: fixed

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Asset Name |Asset ID |Tags |Matches?
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |mule-Connector |Yes
|Salesforce Connector |salesforce-connector |REST |Yes
|Validations API |validations-api |salesforce-connecting |Yes
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/connect, salesforce:enabled |Yes
|Cisco Sales API  |cisco-sales-api |Connecting, Productive |Yes
|Cisco Connector |cisco-connector |com.cisco.connector.sales
|Yes, because the tag is split into separate terms.
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |muleconnector, MuleConnector |No. `connect` was not found.

> |Salesforce Connec |salesforce-connec |REST |No. `connect` was not found.

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to be connect?

Author: thanks, should be salesforce connector. Fixed

Example search terms:

[source,text,linenums]
----
Api: "Sales connect"
Api "Sales-connect"
Api "Sales:/connect"
Api-"Sales/connect"
"Sales connect":Api
----

This table shows how each search term is interpreted based on the values in the asset name,
asset ID, and tags for an asset. If the search term maps to the values correctly, a match occurs. If not,
the reason displays when the match does not occur.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Asset Name |Asset ID |Tags |Matches?
|Salesforce API |salesforce-api |mule-Connector |No. `sales connect` was not found.
|Salesforce Connector |salesforce-connector |REST |No
|Sales Connect Asset |validations-api |mule-connector |Yes
|Sales Connect Images |validations-images |mule-connector |No. `api` was not found.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/connect, sales:enabled |No. `sales connect` was not found.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |resource:/sales, connect:enabled |No. `sales connect` was not found, because each term is in different tags.
|Optimized API |optimized-api |sales:/connect |Yes
|===

== Search by Types, Tags, Categories, and Custom Fields 

> You can enter a search keyword in the *Search assets* box to find an assets. 

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: find an asset/find assets

Author: find assets, fixed

> You can click *All Types* to set a filter for specific asset types, or combine search text with the filters listed in the *Types* menu.

Reviewer 2: I think this sounds better without the comma

Author: removed comma, thanks

= Legacy Search Experience
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> The legacy search experience is also known as the old search option on the Exchange UI. This search experience is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. This search experience does not include enhanced options for searching by rank, tags, categories, organizations, and lifecycle states. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The legacy search experience is also known as the old search option on the Exchange UI. This search experience is available in Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition, MuleSoft Government Cloud, the US cloud, and the EU cloud. This search experience does not include enhanced options for searching by rank, organizations, and lifecycle states. 
```
Tags and categories can be used for filtering using the "query language" describe below.

To access the legacy search, click *Back to old search* from the landing page.

Discover assets by searching for specific assets from the landing page of the Exchange catalog. 

== Display Assets in List or Grid View

> You have an option to display the catalog of assets in list or grid view. List view arranges assets in a list format and grid view displays the assets in tiles. Both views sort the assets by the latest modified date and display the asset name, type, modified date, rating, and created by information.

Reviewer 4: I believe grid view doesn't display the modified date

Author: removed modified date

 /teams:
   get:
     displayName: Teams directory
     description: Get list of all teams in the league
     queryParameters:
       offset:
         displayName: Offset
         description: Offset for the result set
     responses:
       200:
         body:
           application/json:
               type: Team[]
   post:
     displayName: Create team
     description: Creates a new team in the league
     responses:
       201:
         description: New team has been created
----

This API is found by these searches:
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Search term |Matches
|league API |API title
|leagues.com |API baseUri
|`/leagues` |Endpoint path
|League resource |Endpoint display name
|Information about a league |Endpoint description
|POST |Endpoint method
|create team |Endpoint method description
|offset |Query parameter name, Query parameter description
|leagueid |URI parameter name
|team |Type name
|city |Type property name
|leagues leagueId teams |Endpoint path
|`/leagues/LEAGUE_ID/teams` |Endpoint path
|===

Note that the last two searches are the same, because special characters are removed before searching.

> == Search for Phrases 

Reviewer 4: Repeated ?
